
simulation files
At  your conference call last week it was requested that I do some simulated
data calculations for possible use at MDA in ongoing calculations and testing.
I have done a few of these as examples along with explanations to get this
process started. They are done with a code I have developed over many years
expanding from magnet design, to magnetic fields from the brain, to magnetic
relaxometry. Unfortunately, the code is too large and too complicated to share
but I have adapted it so I can quickly do simulations. I have put all of these
results in a file on sugarsync along with the explanation that I duplicate
below. Let me know if these are useful and if further calculations are desired.
I should point out that these simulations have been used establish some of the
actual physical parameters of the system such as the rotation angle of the
dewar and also confirmation of sensitivity of the sensors since they are
straightforward EM calculations.

Simulation Data for Gen3 System at MDA

A number of simulation calculations were made using the geometry of the Gen3
system now at MDA. The results are in the file ‘simulations’ which has put on
the sugarsync cloud as a shared file for the people on the conference call of
last week. These are intended as starting points for discussion so feedback is
necessary if more calculations are desired. The basic premise is to provide
simulated data for a number of dipoles and for 1 and 5 standard stage
positions. The coordinates of the sensors is given in file 1 below with the
first 7 being at the central stage position and the following are for the stage
being moved to positions shown in file 10 with the dipole positions shown in
file 9 (Note the value of the z axis is negative for the dipoles to give a
consistent coordinate system; same result if stage z had been used instead with
positive values).

All of the sim files show the fields (or flux) as a single row of values for
the 7 sensors followed by a similar row for each stage position. The file name
indicates number of dipoles and stage positions. These files can be directly
input into the analysis code MSA code by clicking the Simulated Data? Button
and then the LOAD DATA button to load the file in. The code looks for files
ending in .sim. Note also that the stage coordinates must be input to the code
when this is done as the .sim files do not contain this information. The stage
coordinates used here are shown in file 10. Inputting these .sim files into MSA
should give back exactly the dipole coordinates and strengths shown in these
files. The exceptions are for a noise input where a random noise of 10pT was
introduced (this is only an approximation of real noise as it is not
synchronous across sensors but introduced randomly into each sensor output).
This noise shows a small deviation in fit. The other exception is for flux
calculation where there appears to be a small difference between the dipole
parameters being input and those coming back from the MSA fit. It is not clear
at this point if this is an error in the simulated flux data or the MSA flux
calculation which has not been thoroughly checked out since its original coding
by Trace Tessier. Some work is needed here. The flux is calculated for the 7
channel circular sensors by dividing the face up into circles and triangles
into 256 segments, calculating the field in each segment and multiplying by the
area of that segment and then adding all of the segments together. It is
calculated in picoWebers (pT-m-m).

A few examples of contour plots for these fields and flux calculations are
shown using the code DiaDem or the MSA code to indicate that multiple dipoles
give contour lines that can be used to give guesses as to initial values for
solving the inverse problem in MSA. All sims were done assuming 0 degree
rotation angle for the dewar with respect to the stage as the actual dewar
angle at MDA was not known.

 

The folder simulations contains the following files

1) Field&flux_vs_coords.xls: has all of the x, y, and z cords for five stage
positions of a seven channel array with zero degree rotation about the dewar
axis, Also has B and W for a five stage position and one dipole case.

2) dip_1_stpos_1 .txt .sim: Values of B for a single dipole of 1.0E+05 pJ/T
strength at 4 cm from the central sensor of the Gen3 system for one stage
position. (see stage position and dipole position screen shots for coordinates
and strengths0

3) dip_1_stpos_5 .txt .sim: As above for 5 stage positions.

4) dip_2_stpos_5 .txt .sim: two dipoles

5) dip_3_stpos_5 .txt .sim: 3 dipoles

6) dip_5_stpos_5 .txt .sim: 5 dipoles

7) dip_3_stpos_5_noise .txt .sim: 3 dipoles with 10pT random noise

8) pcdipole_ctl_panel.jpg: Screen shot of PcDipole control panel showing
parameters used to simulate Gen3 system. The code was set to calculate the 7
channel system. Note that the rotation angle of the dewar was set to 0 degrees
and not the actual dewar angle of the MDA Gen3 system which was unknown. If the
sim data above are fed into the MSA code using the simulation input, the code
will need to be adjusted for this angle. (This is actually one way to determine
the correct angle of the dewar orientation with respect to the stage.)

9) pcdipole_dipolesl.jpg: Screen shot of the dipole parameters used in the sim calculations.

10) pcdipole_stages.jpg: Screen shot of the stage parameters

11) MSA_input_panel.jpg: Screen shot of MSA code used to fit above sim data.
Note that the stage positions have to be fed in by hand based on the screen
shot of the stage parameters.

12) DiaDem_5dip_ctrs.jpg: Contour fields for the 5 dipole sim case from above using the code DiaDem

13) MSA_5dip_ctrs.jpg: As in 12 but from the MSA code.

14) dip_5_stpos_5_flux .txt .sim: As in 6 above but a flux calculation

15) dip_1_stpos_5_flux .txt .sim: As in 3 but flux

16) DiaDem_5dip_flux_ctrs.jpg: As in 12 but flux

